if you will return o Israel return to me
and if you will put away your
abominations out of my sight
then you shall not be moved and you
shall swear the Lord lives in truth in
judgment and in righteousness the
nations shall bless themselves in him
and in him they shall glory for thus
says the Lord to the men of Judah and
Jerusalem break up your fallow ground
and do not sow among thorns circumcise
yourselves to the Lord and take away the
foreskins of your hearts you men of
Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem lest
my fury come forth like fire and burn so
that no one can quench it because of the
evil of your doings declare in Judah and
proclaim in Jerusalem and say blow the
trumpet in the land cry gather together
and say assemble yourselves and let us
go into the fortified cities set up the
standard toward Zion take refuge do not
delay for I will bring disaster from the
north and great destruction the lion has
come up from his thicket and the
destroyer of Nations is on his way he
has gone forth from his place to make
your land desolate your cities will be
laid waste without inhabitant for this
clothe yourself with sackcloth lament
and wail for the fierce anger of the
Lord has not turned back from us and it
shall come to pass in that day says the
Lord that the heart of the King Shall
Perish and the heart of the princes the
priests shall be astonished
and the prophets shall wander ah Lord
God surely you have greatly deceived
this people and Jerusalem saying you
shall have peace whereas the sword
reaches to the heart at that time it
will be said to this people and to
Jerusalem a dry wind of the desolate
heights blows in the wilderness toward
the daughter of my people not to fan or
to cleanse a wind too strong for these
will come for me now I will also speak
judgment against it behold he shall come
up like clouds and his chariots like a
whirlwind his horses are swifter than
Eagles woe to us for we are plundered Oh
Jerusalem wash our heart from wickedness
that you may be saved how long shall
your evil thoughts lodged within you for
a voice declares from Dan and proclaims
affliction from mount ephraim make
mention to the nation's yes proclaim
against Jerusalem that watchers come
from a far country and raise their voice
against the cities of Judah like keepers
of a field they are against her all
around because she has been rebellious
against me says the Lord your ways and
your doings have procured these things
for you this is your wickedness because
it is bitter because it reaches to your
heart o my soul my soul
I am pained in my very heart my heart
makes a noise in me I cannot hold my
peace because you have heard all my soul
the sound of the trumpet the alarm of
war destruction upon destruction has
cried for the whole land is plundered
suddenly my tents are plundered and my
curtains in a moment how long will I see
the standard and hear the sound of the
trumpet for my people are foolish they
have not known me they are silly
children and they have no understanding
they are wise to do evil but to do good
they have no knowledge I beheld the
earth and indeed it was without form and
void and the heavens they had no light I
beheld the mountains and indeed they
trembled and all the hills moved back
and forth I beheld and indeed there was
no man and all the birds of the heavens
had fled I beheld and indeed the
fruitful land was a wilderness and all
that cities were broken down at the
presence of the Lord by his fierce anger
for thus says the Lord the whole land
shall be desolate yet I will not make a
full end for this shall be earth more
and the heavens above be black because I
have spoken I have purposed
and I will not relent nor will I turn
back from it the whole city shall flee
from the noise of the horsemen and
bowmen they shall go into thickens
and climb up on the rocks every city
shall be Forsaken and not a man shall
dwell in it and when you are plundered
what will you do though you clothed
yourself with crimson though you adorn
yourself with ornaments of gold though
you enlarge your eyes was paint in vain
you will make yourself fair your lovers
will despise you they will seek your
life for I have heard a voice as of a
woman in labor the anguish as of her who
brings forth her first child the voice
of the daughter of Zion be wailing
herself she spreads her hand saying woe
is me now for my soul is weary because
of murderers
[Music]
you